Creates agent builder for security docs (#4942)
elastic/docs-content: solutions/security/ai/agent-builder/agent-builder.md

---
applies_to:
  stack: preview 9.3+
  serverless:
    security: preview 9.3+
products:
  - id: security
  - id: cloud-serverless
---

# Agent Builder for Elastic Security

[Agent Builder](/explore-analyze/ai-features/elastic-agent-builder.md) is Elastic's AI platform which includes a natural language chat interface, built-in agents and Elastic tools, and allows creating custom agents and tools for your use case. You can manage and interact with your agents using the {{kib}} UI or work programmatically. 

For {{elastic-sec}} specifically, it can provide automation capabilities for a wide range of tasks to help your team achieve more. 

You can create custom agents equipped with additional tools, and create [Elastic Workflows](/explore-analyze/workflows.md) that can automatically isolate hosts, create cases, send notification messages to external platforms, and more. 

:::{note}
:applies_to: {stack: preview 9.3+, serverless: preview}
Agent builder is in technical preview. To use it in Elastic Security, you need to [opt in](/explore-analyze/ai-features/ai-chat-experiences/ai-agent-or-ai-assistant.md). 
:::

## The Threat Hunting agent

> Agent Builder features a pre-built [Threat Hunting agent](/explore-analyze/ai-features/agent-builder/builtin-agents-reference.md#threat-hunting-agent) designed to accelerate security investigations by synthesizing data from Alerts, Attack Discovery, Entity Risk Scores, and Elastic Security Labs. By default it includes the [platform core tools](/explore-analyze/ai-features/agent-builder/tools/builtin-tools-reference.md#platform-core-tools) and [security tools](/explore-analyze/ai-features/agent-builder/tools/builtin-tools-reference.md#security-tools). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Agent Builder features a built-in [Threat Hunting agent](/explore-analyze/ai-features/agent-builder/builtin-agents-reference.md#threat-hunting-agent) designed to accelerate security investigations by synthesizing data from sources such as Alerts, Attack Discovery, and Entity Risk Scores. By default it includes the [platform core tools](/explore-analyze/ai-features/agent-builder/tools/builtin-tools-reference.md#platform-core-tools) and [security tools](/explore-analyze/ai-features/agent-builder/tools/builtin-tools-reference.md#security-tools). 
```

- uses built-in for consistency 
- light tweak: the phrase "such as" signals the list isn't exhaustive

To learn more about the types of Agent Builder tools that you can create, refer to [](/explore-analyze/ai-features/agent-builder/tools/custom-tools.md).

## Use Agent Builder and Workflows together

Workflows lets you augment your team's capabilities for responding to threats by setting up automated processes that use a wide range of tools, without needing an external automation platform. 

There are two main ways to use workflows alongside Agent Builder:

- **Enable an agent to run workflows:** You can allow custom agents to independently start workflows. For more information, refer to [](/explore-analyze/ai-features/agent-builder/tools/workflow-tools.md).
- **Add AI-powered steps to your workflows:** AI steps introduce reasoning and language understanding into workflows. Use AI steps to process natural language, make context-aware decisions, or operate through agents. For more information, refer to [](/explore-analyze/workflows/steps.md)

In combination, these tools can help:

- Reduce alert fatigue by automating responses to reduce manual triage
- Automate routine tasks
- Eliminate the need for external automation tools

## Examples: Agent Builder and Elastic Workflows

> This section provides conceptual examples of what you can achieve with Agent Builder workflows. For specific examples of workflows, including complete annotated code samples, refer to the [elastic/workflows/security](https://github.com/elastic/workflows/tree/main/workflows/security) GitHub repo.

Reviewer: I know this is conceptual, but I can see users being frustrated that we don't have actual examples here

We should think about how we can keep the repo and the docs in sync over time, especially because they're already running into versioning issues by hosting them in the repo. We have applies_to at our disposal to make availability super clear. Not sure what the technical solution would be though.

### Example 1: Run Attack Discovery using a workflow
You can create a workflow that:

 - Runs periodically, and initiates Attack Discovery when it runs
 - Sends any discovered attacks to the Threat Hunting agent to analyze and create a report 
 - Sends that report to a third-party incident management platform and sends alerts to your team

### Example 3: Triage an alert with a workflow
You can create a workflow that:

> - Runs manually on an alert of your choosing

Reviewer 2: The automated functionality might be better to highlight since it saves analysts time, energy, and effort.

```suggestion
- Triggers automatically when a rule generates an alert
```

- Provides the alert data to the Threat Hunting agent with a pre-defined prompt such as `analyze this alert, check whether it's connected to existing attacks, and identify all implicated entities`
- Creates a report based on what it finds and sends it to a Slack channel
- Suggests next steps

> ### Example 3: Alert an triage using an Agent Builder prompt

Reviewer 2: Not sure if this is correct or if "an" should be "and".

```suggestion
### Example 3: Alert triage using an Agent Builder prompt
```
